---
title: 'ion-range'
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import Props from '@site/static/auto-generated/range/props.md';
import Events from '@site/static/auto-generated/range/events.md';
import Methods from '@site/static/auto-generated/range/methods.md';
import Parts from '@site/static/auto-generated/range/parts.md';
import CustomProps from '@site/static/auto-generated/range/custom-props.md';
import Slots from '@site/static/auto-generated/range/slots.md';

<head>
  <title>Range Slider | ion-range: Slider Knob Controls with Labels</title>
  <meta name="description" content="ion-range lets you select from a range of values by moving the slider. It accepts dual knobs but one controls the value and labels can be placed on either side." />
</head>

import EncapsulationPill from '@components/page/api/EncapsulationPill';
import APITOCInline from '@components/page/api/APITOCInline';

<EncapsulationPill type="shadow" />

<h2 className="table-of-contents__title">Contents</h2>

<APITOCInline
toc={toc}
maxHeadingLevel={2}
autogenerated={[Props, Events, Methods, Parts, CustomProps, Slots]}
/>

The Range slider lets users select from a range of values by moving the slider knob. By default one knob controls the value of the range. This behavior can be customized using [dual knobs](#dual-knobs).

By default the Range slider has a minimum value of `0` and a maximum value of `100`. This can be configured with the `min` and `max` properties.

import Basic from '@site/static/usage/range/basic/index.md';

<Basic />

## Range Labels

Labels and custom UI elements can be slotted on either side of the range by adding `slot="start"` or `slot="end"` to the element. The element can be any element, such as an `ion-label`, `ion-icon` or a `div`. If the directionality of the document is set to left to right, the contents slotted to the `start` position will display to the left of the range, where as contents slotted to the `end` position will display to the right of the range. In right to left (rtl) directionality, the contents slotted to the `start` position will display to the right of the range, where as contents slotted to the `end` position` will display to the left of the range.

import SlotsPlayground from '@site/static/usage/range/slots/index.md';

<SlotsPlayground />

## Dual Knobs

Dual knobs introduce two knob controls that users can use to select a value at a lower and upper bounds. When selected, the Range will emit an `ionChange` event with a [RangeValue](#rangevalue), containing the upper and lower values selected.

import DualKnobs from '@site/static/usage/range/dual-knobs/index.md';

<DualKnobs />

## Pins

The `pin` attribute will display the value of the Range above the knob when dragged. This allows users to select a specific value within the Range.

With the `pinFormatter` function, developers can customize the formatting of the range value to the user.

import Pins from '@site/static/usage/range/pins/index.md';

<Pins />

## Snapping & Ticks

Ticks show indications for each available value on the Range. In order to use ticks, developers must set both `snaps` and the `ticks` property to `true`.

With snapping enabled, the Range knob will snap to the nearest available value as the knob is dragged and released.

import SnappingTicks from '@site/static/usage/range/snapping-ticks/index.md';

<SnappingTicks />

## Event Handling

### Using `ionChange`

The `ionChange` event emits as the Range knob value changes.

import IonChangeEvent from '@site/static/usage/range/ion-change-event/index.md';

<IonChangeEvent />

### Using `ionKnobMoveStart` and `ionKnobMoveEnd`

The `ionKnobMoveStart` event emits when the Range knob begins dragging, whether through mouse drag, touch gesture or keyboard interaction. Inversely, `ionKnobMoveEnd` emits when the Range knob is released. Both events emit with the `RangeValue` type and work in combination with the `dualKnobs` property.

import IonKnobMoveEvent from '@site/static/usage/range/ion-knob-move-event/index.md';

<IonKnobMoveEvent />

## Styling

### Styling with CSS Variables

Range includes [CSS Variables](#css-custom-properties) to quickly theme and customize the appearance of the Range component to match your application's design.

import CssVariablesPlayground from '@site/static/usage/range/css-variables/index.md';

<CssVariablesPlayground />

### Styling with CSS Shadow Parts

Range includes [CSS Shadow Parts](#css-shadow-parts) to allow complete customization of specific element nodes within the Range component. CSS Shadow Parts offer the most customization capabilities and are the recommended approach when requiring advance styling with the Range component.

import CssShadowPartsPlayground from '@site/static/usage/range/css-shadow-parts/index.md';

<CssShadowPartsPlayground />

## Interfaces

### RangeChangeEventDetail

```typescript
interface RangeChangeEventDetail {
	value: RangeValue;
}
```

### RangeKnobMoveStartEventDetail

```typescript
interface RangeKnobMoveStartEventDetail {
	value: RangeValue;
}
```

### RangeKnobMoveEndEventDetail

```typescript
interface RangeKnobMoveEndEventDetail {
	value: RangeValue;
}
```

### RangeCustomEvent

While not required, this interface can be used in place of the `CustomEvent` interface for stronger typing with Ionic events emitted from this component.

```typescript
interface RangeCustomEvent extends CustomEvent {
	detail: RangeChangeEventDetail;
	target: HTMLIonRangeElement;
}
```

## Types

### RangeValue

```typescript
type RangeValue = number | { lower: number; upper: number };
```

<Props />
<Events />
<Methods />
<Parts />
<CustomProps />
<Slots />
